How to deploy Keycloak with external Infinispan (#566)
keycloak/keycloak-benchmark: doc/kubernetes/modules/ROOT/pages/running/keycloak-with-external-infinispan-deployment.adoc

= Keycloak with external Infinispan Deployment
:description: This describes configuration tweaks and changes on how to run Keycloak with an external Infinispan Deployment under load.

{description}

== Audience

This guide describes advanced Infinispan configurations for Keycloak on Kubernetes which are load tested and will recover from single Pod failures.

While the Helm charts in the Keycloak Benchmark project mix different aspects of production style deployments with instrumentation and monitoring, this documentation focuses on a minimal deployment with optional add-ons which admins can opt in for their own deployments.

See xref:running/index.adoc[] for additional guides.

== Prerequisites

* OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster running.
* Understanding of the xref:running/keycloak-deployment.adoc[Basic Keycloak deployment].

> * Understanding of a https://infinispan.org/docs/helm-chart/main/helm-chart.html[Infinispan deployment using Helm charts].

Reviewer: We are not using the Infinispan helm charts but the Infinispan operator: https://infinispan.org/docs/infinispan-operator/main/operator.html

Author: Good point, I will update the resource and change the language to indicate that.

== Procedure

* Prepare an Infinispan Cache configuration XML, which would then be consumed in the Keycloak CR.
* Create Config Map, Secret and other Kubernetes resources needed for Keycloak to connect to an external Infinispan deployment.
* Extend the Keycloak Custom Resource with below Kubernetes deployment resources.

=== Remote store username and password defined in a Kubernetes Secret
[source,yaml]

> ----

Reviewer: both the Secret and ConfigMap are in the generated `keycloak-ispn.yaml` and can be imported.

Author: We are not pointing to the `keycloak-ispn.yaml` in our docs, it was merely done for Automation. If you think we should point the users to the generated yaml file, we need to change our workflow a little bit, let me know what you think, thats the reason I was calling them out separately.

Reviewer: yes we are, here: https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak-benchmark/pull/566/files#diff-cd3c22227b856c0da2469d4ee3bb053ffd9c9ba5f9d3b1c68b24f0af42cfcad3R54

Author: @ahus1 we might need your input here, do you think we should point to the `keycloak-ispn.yaml` and display the Secret and ConfigMap together instead of separate blocks of yaml, save the users some time to re-arrange the pieces ?

apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: remote-store-secret
  namespace: keycloak
type: Opaque
data:
  username: <base-64 encoded String>
  password: <base-64 encoded String>
----

=== Keycloak Cache configuration defined in a Kubernetes Config Map
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kcb-infinispan-cache-config
  namespace: keycloak
data: {}
----

=== Keycloak CR with external Infinispan updates
[source,yaml]
----
include::example$helm/keycloak-ispn.yaml[tag=keycloak-ispn]
----
<1> Custom cache configuration XML file definition, which includes configuration for remote or embedded Infinispan store.
See xref:./concepts/infinispan-cache-config-xml.adoc[Infinispan remote cache configuration] for details.

> <2> Remote cache store Hostname, Port, Username and Password (Created via the Kubernetes Secret defined above)

Reviewer: IMO, this label could be split in 2
* one for host/port: `The hostname/IP and the port of the Infinispan cluster`
* other for credentials: `The credentials required, username and password, to access the Infinispan cluster`

Author: sure thing, will split this into two. thanks for the review @pruivo

== Prerequisites

* OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster running.
* Understanding of the xref:running/keycloak-deployment.adoc[Basic Keycloak deployment].
* Understanding of an https://infinispan.org/docs/infinispan-operator/main/operator.html[Infinispan deployment using its Operator].

== Procedure

* Prepare an Infinispan Cache configuration XML, which would then be consumed in the Keycloak CR.
* Create Config Map, Secret and other Kubernetes resources needed for Keycloak to connect to an external Infinispan deployment.
* Extend the Keycloak Custom Resource with below Kubernetes deployment resources.

=== Remote store username and password defined in a Kubernetes Secret
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: remote-store-secret
  namespace: keycloak
type: Opaque
data:
  username: <base-64 encoded String>
  password: <base-64 encoded String>
----

=== Keycloak Cache configuration defined in a Kubernetes Config Map
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: kcb-infinispan-cache-config
  namespace: keycloak
data: {}
----

=== Keycloak CR with external Infinispan updates
[source,yaml]
----

> include::example$helm/keycloak-ispn.yaml[tag=keycloak-ispn]

Reviewer 2: I see that this is missing some options that are present in https://www.keycloak.org/keycloak-benchmark/kubernetes-guide/latest/running/keycloak-deployment#procedure for example database config, should we include it too? Or we rely on the prerequisite to understand the previous guide.

Author: right we are treating this as an incremental update to the basic Keycloak Deployment.

----
<1> Custom cache configuration XML file definition, which includes configuration for remote or embedded Infinispan store.
See xref:./concepts/infinispan-cache-config-xml.adoc[Infinispan remote cache configuration] for details.
<2> The hostname/IP and the port of the remote cache Infinispan cluster.
<3> The credentials required, username and password, to access the remote cache Infinispan cluster.
<4> Mounting the cache configuration Volume in Kubernetes.

> <5> `jboss.site.name` is an arbitrary Infinispan site name which Keycloak needs for a given Infinispan deployment

Reviewer 2: from the comment it should be visible this value is used as the site name for the embedded infinispan. For example:
```suggestion
<5> `jboss.site.name` is an arbitrary Infinispan site name which Keycloak needs for its embedded Infinispan deployment; this site name is related only to embedded Infinsipan and does not need to match any value from the external Infinispan deployment
```
